One of the things that historically
has been really hard in
Angular that was very easy to
do an Angular JS was the ability
to dynamically instantiate and
attach components to the doc.
It was just the way that they
built the view render engine.
Pre IV that made this
really really difficult.
With the, I would say the migration
into IV this became a lot easier.
And with Angular 13,
this became Incredibly easy,
super easy, barely an inconvenience.
And so I want to show an example
about how to take a number of
components and
dynamically attach them to the DOM.
And so
we have a dynamic components example here.
There's nothing happening yet,
but I assure you,
I do not have any aces up my sleeve,
or do I?
And with that, let's look into our code.
Now, the one thing that I do wanna show,
again, this would be the clone of like,
nothing on my sleeve,
is that inside of my dynamic-component.
Component, all I have is just
this toolbar, nothing else.
And within my
dynamic-component.component class,
I have a little bit of setup code here.
Which is fairly simple.
I have a shapes array with
a number of shape objects.
So tight square square triangle
circle square triangle.
And the one thing that I have done for
convenience is I've created a HashMap.
Mapping the type of the shape to
a component to its equivalent components
of circle, if you can believe it is mapped
to a circle component and so forth.
Now, just to dispel any
mystery about what's happening
in these particular components
these are very, very lightweight.
And even just to reduce some
of the cognitive overhead,
I've went ahead and just put all of
these components into a single file,
kind of like us film a little react or
react II when I did it this way.
But just so
that they're self contained, and
I didn't have four files to represent
something that was just a shape.
We have our selector, a basic template and
then I have a, if you can see here I
have a div with a class of circle
that I'm just drawing a circle on it.
And I've done the same thing for
square and triangle.
And so there is very little here other
than I just needed something to visually
represent a component on the page that we
could delineate it from everything else.
And so
what I wanna do is I want to go ahead and
I want to iterate over this shapes
array and attach these to the page.
Now in order for this to work,
I need to add in view container ref.
So private and
we'll go view container ref.
And now that we have
injected the view container
ref Let's hop into our mg on a knit.
And let's write some code.
Now what's fun about this
is that this is gonna be
an incredibly concise bit
of code to make this work.
So the first thing I need to do is
I'm going to iterate over shapes and
so I haven't even gotten to
the good part yet, shape and
get rid of all these helpful not helpful.
Hints here and,
Now, moment of truth, the grand finale,
we're gonna go this.viewContainerRef.
Create component.
And from here,
we're going to look up our components.
And we're gonna go shape.type.
And so what this is going to do is
essentially look into the HashMap here and
pull down square component,
triangle component and circled component.
And so this entire example,
comes down to this single line,
which I think is really awesome.
So if you contain a ref.createcomponent.
And now if we go back into
our code here we go and
so that was almost too easy.
It kinda feels like a trap but
I assure you it's not but
let me before we end
this particular example,
I want to just illustrate a use
case where this can be very, handy.
Imagine you have a media,
an array of various media elements.
And so
I'm imagining that you have pictures,
videos, text or whatever it is.
And you are able to create
an interface that across
the different media types
that it is consistent and
so you might have on their data.
And so it might be like media dot data and
in there you might
have the URL to either the video or
the picture Or the text for
the note and
within that you would have immediate.type.
And so based on the type is
you iterate over this that
you're now able to Do let's
say like kind of a grid
layout to where the data
is basically the same.
Creating the data is basically the same,
but
you want to render that
entirely different.
And so this is a really,
really great way to use a homogenous
data set that is defined by
an interface in adheres to it,
but the visual representation
of that is wildly different.
And so this is where you could
render a picture, an image, a video,
whatever it is, and create a really kind
of a unique immersive experience visually.
But under the hood,
that there's not a lot to it.
And so then within each one of these
components, in this case, it's square
triangle circle, that you can then have
the logic to say well, this is a video.
So I'm going to render the video and
so now you're able to
encapsulate the the rendering concerns
into the individual component.
And all you have to do is just add them
to the page and it takes care of itself.
So I think this is really cool and
the fact that we're able to do this with
this single command here
is I think fantastic,
I'm super happy this is
probably the one the one thing.
That with Angular 13 I think
they did a really good job and
it is as simple as can be.